=pod

=head1 NAME

 CMP_doInitialRequestSeq,
 CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq,

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 X509 *CMP_doInitialRequestSeq( BIO *cbio, CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq( BIO *cbio, CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *CMP_doCertificateRequestSeq( BIO *cbio, CMP_CTX *ctx);
 int CMP_doPKIInfoReqSeq( BIO *cbio, CMP_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the API for doing client-server sequences using CMP (Certificate
Management Protocol) with OpenSSL. The conveying protocol is HTTP for
now.

CMP_doInitialRequestSeq() does the sequence which obtains an initial
certificate from the CA. An initialized BIO and a populated CMP_CTX
structure have to be given as arguments.

CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq() does the sequence which obains a certificate
for an updatded key from the CA. An initialized BIO and a populated
CMP_CTX structure have to be given as arguments.

CMP_doCertificateRequestSeq() requests an additional certificate for an
existing key from the CA. An initialized BIO and a populated CMP_CTX
structure have to be given as arguments.

CMP_doPKIInfoReqSeq() requests information about the current status of a
CA.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

The implementation of CMP for OpenSSL is still work in progress. The API
might change every release!

=head1 RETURN VALUES

CMP_doInitialRequestSeq() and CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq() return a
pointer the newly obtained X509 certificate on success, NULL on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

See CMP_CTX for examples on how to prepare the context for these
functions.

=head1 TODO

A lot!

=head1 SEE ALSO

CMP_CTX, CMP_http
