
=pod

=head1 NAME

cmp - client for the Certificate Management Protocol (RFC4210)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<cmp>
[B<-server ADDRESS:PORT>]
[B<-path remote_path>]
[B<-cmd ir|kur|cr|rr>]
[B<-user username>]
[B<-pass password>]
[B<-cert filename>]
[B<-key filename>]
[B<-keypass password>]
[B<-certout filename>]
[B<-newkey filename>]
[B<-newkeypass password>]
[B<-srvcert filename>]
[B<-trusted filename>]
[B<-untrusted filename>]
[B<-keyfmt DER|PEM>]
[B<-certfmt DER|PEM>]
[B<-subject name>]
[B<-recipient name>]
[B<-extracertsout directory>]
[B<-cacertsout directory>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<cmp> command is a client implementation for the Certificate
Management Protocol as defined in RFC4210. It can be used to request
certificates from a CA server, update their keys and request the
certificates to be revoked and perform other CMP requests.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server ADDRESS:PORT>

The IP address or hostname and port of the CMP server to connect to.

=item B<-path remote_path>

HTTP path location to use for the CMP server.

=item B<-cmd ir|kur|cr|rr>

CMP command to execute. Currently implemented commands are:
    ir  - Initial Request
    kur - Key Update Request
    cr  - Certificate Request
    rr  - Revocation Request

=item B<-user username>

Username (reference value) to be used when messages are authenticated
with pre-shared keys.

=item B<-pass password>

Password (secret value) to be used when messages are authenticated with
pre-shared keys.

=item B<-cert filename>

The client's currently existing certificate. This will be used for
signing messages for example in the Key Update Request, or when
authenticating the IR using an existing certificate (as defined in
appendix E.7 of the RFC).

=item B<-key filename>

The corresponding private key file for the client's current certificate given in
the -cert option.

=item B<-keypass password>

Password for the private key given with the -key option.  If not given here, the
password will be prompted for if needed.

=item B<-certout filename>

The file where the newly received certificate should be saved.

=item B<-newkey filename>

The file containing the key that we will be requesting the new certificate to be
issued for.  For example in IR, CR or KUR.

=item B<-newkeypass password>

Password of the new key file given with the -newkey option.  If not given here, the 
password will be prompted for if needed.

=item B<-srvcert filename>

Certificate of the CMP server, to be used if the certificate is available and directly
trusted.

=item B<-trusted filename>

A file with trusted certificates. The file could contain multiple
certificates concatenated together.

=item B<-untrusted filename>

A file of untrusted certificates needed for path validation. The file can contain 
multiple certificates.

=item B<-keyfmt DER|PEM>

Format the key files are stored in. Default value is PEM.

=item B<-certfmt DER|PEM>

Format the certificate files are stored in. Default value is PEM.

=item B<-subject name>

X509 subject name to be used in the requested certificate template.
The argument must be formatted as I</type0=value0/type1=value1/type2=...>,
characters may be escaped by \ (backslash), no spaces are skipped.

=item B<-recipient name>

X509 name of the recipient, i.e. the name of the CA we are sending the
request to. If no CA certificate is provided, then at least the
recipient name must be specified in order for the IR to work.
The argument must be formatted as I</type0=value0/type1=value1/type2=...>,
characters may be escaped by \ (backslash), no spaces are skipped.

=item B<-extracertsout directory>

Directory where to save any extra certificates received in a response
message.

=item B<-cacertsout directory>

Directory where to save received CA certificates (from an Initial
Response message).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

Note: in these examples the '\' means the example should be all on one
line.

Sending an initial request message to a CMP server running on the local
host, using a pre-shared secret key for authentication. In this example
the client does not have the CA certificate yet, so we specify the CA's
name with -recipient and save any CA certificates that we may receive
under the ./cacerts directory.

  openssl genrsa -out cl_key.pem
  openssl cmp -cmd ir -server 127.0.0.1:8080 -path pkix/ -user 1234 -pass password \
    -recipient "/CN=CMPserver" -newkey cl_key.pem -subject "/CN=MyName" \
    -cacertsout capubs.pem -certout cl_cert.pem

Then, when the keys for this certificate need to be updated, the client
can send a key update request. 

  openssl genrsa -out cl_key_new.pem
  openssl cmp -cmd kur -server 127.0.0.1:8080 -path pkix/ -cert cl_cert.pem \
    -key cl_key.pem -srvcert capubs.pem -newkey cl_key_new.pem -certout cl_cert_new.pem

=back

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item * Option for selecting the OpenSSL engine to use.

=item * Option for printing more verbose information.

=item * Receiving a CKUANN using a CMP general message.  Generally: Sending CMP
general messages for requesting certain information.

=item * Multiple certificate/revocation requests in one session (functionality not yet
available in the library).

=item * Revocation of other certificates than the one used for signing
certificates (functionality not yet available in the library).

=item * Message sequences other than IR/CR/KUR/RR (functionality not yet
available in the library).

=item * Many optionally available settings from the RFC which are not yet
available in the library and are probably not supported by any available CMP
server.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<genrsa(1)|genrsa(1)>, L<gendsa(1)|gendsa(1)>, L<x509v3_config(5)|x509(1)> 

=cut
