=pod

=head1 NAME

 CMP_doInitialRequestSeq,
 CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq,
 CMP_doCertificateRequestSeq,
 CMP_doGeneralMessageSeq,
 CMP_doRevocationRequestSeq

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 X509 *CMP_doInitialRequestSeq(CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq(CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *CMP_doCertificateRequestSeq(CMP_CTX *ctx);
 STACK_OF(CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE) *CMP_doGeneralMessageSeq(CMP_CTX *ctx, int nid, char *value);
 int CMP_doRevocationRequestSeq(CMP_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the API for doing CMP (Certificate Management Protocol)  client-server
message sequences using with OpenSSL. The conveying protocol is HTTP.

CMP_doInitialRequestSeq() does the transaction which obtains an initial certificate
from the CA. A populated CMP_CTX structure has to be given as arguments.

CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq() does the transaction which obains a certificate for an
updatded key from the CA. A populated CMP_CTX structure has to be given as arguments.

CMP_doCertificateRequestSeq() requests an additional certificate for an existing
key from the CA. A populated CMP_CTX structure has to be given as arguments.

CMP_doGeneralMessageSeq() sends a general message and returns the Infotype and
value structures returned by the server.  This can e.g. be used to poll for the
CRL or CA Key Updates.

CMP_doRevocationRequestSeq() requests the revocation of the used certificate via
an revocation request sent to the server.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

CMP_doInitialRequestSeq(), CMP_doCertificateRequestSeq() and
CMP_doKeyUpdateRequestSeq() return a pointer the newly obtained X509 certificate
on success, NULL on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

See CMP_CTX for examples on how to prepare the context for these
functions.

=head1 TODO

The functions for IR, CR and KUR do not yet suppurt requesting multiple
certificates.

The function for sending GENM does not yet directly support sending multiple
ITAV structures.

The reason for an IP/KUP/CP returning waiting status as optional sent in a
PKIFreetext structure could be printed/returned to the user.

The function to request revocation of certificates only can revoke the current
certificate which is also used for signing the messages.  It should be changed
so that the certificate to revoke is explicitly given.  So far only one
certificate can be revoked although that could be several.

The message sequences for other CMP operations are missing so far.

=head1 SEE ALSO

CMP_CTX, CMP_http
